# Working Group Meetings

Note that the dates are estimates and may vary. Double check with us on Discord for the next WG Meeting.

## Working Group for Interchain NFT + Metadata Call 1
  
**4th September 2020**

Agenda:
1. Welcome, Introduction of ICF + Persistence + IXO collaboration - Deepanshu - 5 mins
2. Interchain vision for NFTs & Metadata - Billy - 5 mins  - 5 mins
3. Scope and Objectives - Shaun - 5 mins
4. The NFT landscape - summary based on scoping exercise - Adrien - 5 mins
5. Lightning presentations of 3 use-cases - Adrien & 3 participants - 20 mins
6. Documenting canonical Use-cases (Approach, format, timeline, etc) - Adrien - 15 mins 
7. Working Group membership, agenda for future calls, AoB - Karthik - 10 mins

Video Recording of Call 1: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c5v1xh1mOa4

Slides of Call 1: https://github.com/interNFT/documentation/blob/master/resources/ICF_NFT_WG_-_Call_1_-_04.09.2020.pdf

Minutes of Call 1:

```
Deepanshu Tripathi: Presentation of Persistence and how the project came about to work with ixo network and ICF. 

Billy Rennekamp: Vision for this interchain NFT standard and why working with ixo network and ICF was a natural fit 

Shaun Conway: Introducing a bird eye view of the project methodology and how it fits within its scope and objectives 

Adrien Berthou: Presenting a summary of the findings of his NFT Landscape Research across Ethereum and other chains 

Harm van den Dorpel: Lighting Presentation of Left Gallery 

Gregory Landua: Lightning Presentation of Regen Network 

Adrien Berthou: Introducing the methodology being used to document the Canonical Use Cases 

Karthik Bupathi: Presenting the Working Groups memberships, Agenda for future calls and Communication Tools 

Billy Rennekamp: 
http://github.com/cosmos/ics —> process similar to EIP 
https://github.com/cosmos/ics/tree/master/spec/ics-020-fungible-token-transfer
 —> ICS fungible token standard as an example 
https://github.com/cosmos/ics/pull/294/files —> NFT ICS spec that was never merged

Gregory Landua: 
https://aaronc.gitbook.io/regen-docs/draft/token —> Regen fractional NFT doc 
Gregory of Regen Network: Include a process to decide who needs to “buy in” before moving forward with important decisions. Gregory is happy to host a call to explain the strategy he put in place to get approval from meaningful stakeholders for key decisions being taken. 

ADR = architecture decision record
: document for a spec to be included in the Cosmos SDK 

Karthik Bupathi: 
InterNFT.org —> domain where we will publicly share our efforts; that includes a forum for ongoing discussions and a single source of truth for up-to-date information about latest decisions, events, recordings, documents, updates, and so on.
```

## Working Group for Interchain NFT + Metadata Call 2

**25th September 2020**

Agenda:
1. Welcome, short project intro and last call summary - Billy - 5min
2. Scope and Objectives - where we are now - Shaun - 5min
3. The InterNFT.org website is up and running - Deepanshu - 5min
4. Outcomes of Outreach Effort - Adrien - 5min
5. Ligthning presentations of 2 use-cases - 10 min - by Antoine of IOV Starname and Charly of Centrifuge
6. Use Case collection and documentation - Adrien - 5min
7. Community Feedback - 10 min - Karthik and call participants

Slides of Call 2: https://github.com/interNFT/documentation/tree/master/resources/ICF_NFT_WG_-_Call_2_-_25.09.2020.pdf

Video Recording of Call 2: https://youtu.be/2NwOTwGkgpg

Minutes of Call 2:

```
1. Welcome, v short project intro and briefly mention achievements covered in last call - Billy - 5min
2. Scope and Objectives - where we are now - Shaun - 5min
3. The Github repo as an additional source of info - Deepanshu - 5min
4. Outcomes of Outreach Effort - Adrien - 5 mins

5. Ligthning presentations of 3 use-cases - 20 min - by participants: IOV Starname, Centrifuge
Charly -> presentation of Centrifuge and its NFT use-case https://tinlake.centrifuge.io/ implemented on ethereum and substrate

6. Use Case collection and documentation - Adrien - 10min
Bruno and Raul of Kusama/Polkadot -> presenting http://rmrk.app - Bruno will be happy to follow our standard once ready. Raul sharing the next session discussing the NFT strategy for Kusama https://www.crowdcast.io/e/213v16pl

7. Community Feedback - 10 min - Karthik
Review process discussion
Aaron of Cosmos SDK team and Regen -> presenting ARDs and RFPs/RFCs - first doc use-case and needs, then problem definitions and proposals (that’s in the feature request template when creating a new github issue), once there is alignment on architecture we go thru an ADR process (similar to RFC) - see ADRs on https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/tree/master/docs/architecture
Gregory -> would be great to have these standards convos happening with Lacchain, they work on standards approach to DiD, Metadata and Identity, c.f. https://github.com/lacchain/lacchain-id
Billy -> ADR is very specific to single features, whereas we are talking here about the Metadata+NFT+IBC, it might be beneficial to use the ICS as a starting point. we may need up to four approvals before going forward with decision
Aaron -> on the SDK side we adopted a multi-language standard, i hope we can follow a similar process for NFTs. The discussion can start somewhere else than github issue
Deepanshu -> discussion could start on an forum for non-technical audience to easily take part too, then move to github issues

FYI: Calls are moved to Thursdays from now on
```

## Working Group for Interchain NFT + Metadata Call 3

**22nd October 2020**

Agenda Part I:
1. Welcome to new members of the group - Billy
2. Map - where we are now - Shaun
3. RFC-1 The InterNFT RFC Process - Deepanshu
4. RFC-2  Use Cases & Requirements - Shaun
5.a Drafting process for NFT Metadata Standard Joe
5.b Drafting process for NFT Interface Standard - Deepanshu 
6. Call for contributions - Billy

Agenda Part II:
1. Dean Tribble of Agoric on “NFTs & Object Capabilities”
2. James Waugh of Secret Network on “NFTs and Privacy”

Slides of Call 3: https://github.com/interNFT/documentation/tree/master/resources/ICF_NFT_WG_-_Call_3_-_22.10.2020.pdf

Video Recording of Call 3: coming soon...

Minutes of Call 3:

```
Part I:
1. Welcome, v short project intro and project scope reminder - Billy - 5min
2. Where we are now: the use case document and data collection - Shaun
3. RFC-1 The InterNFT RFC Process: presentation of the RFC process by Deepanshu. c.f. https://github.com/interNFT/nft-rfc and https://github.com/orgs/interNFT/projects/3
4. RFC-2 Use Cases & Requirements: presentation of the Document by Shaun - https://github.com/interNFT/use-cases/blob/main/NFT-REC-002-use-cases.md
5.a Drafting process for NFT Metadata Standard by Joe - Timeline, Drafting initial Doc, Triaging PRs, Participation Requirements
5.b Drafting process for NFT Interface Standard by Deepanshu - Technical Expectations, Initial Prototype, Working Draft
6. Call for contributions - Billy

Part II:
1. Dean Tribble and Mark Miller of Agoric on “NFTs & Object Capabilities” - past work and how it fits into NFTs, ongoing work with bita.studio, use cases, engineering, object capability system, composition reasoning under mutualy suspicious assumptions, e-rights, rich composition, programing-language abstraction layer
2. James Waugh of Secret Network on “NFTs and Privacy” - Secret Network presentation, Private NFTs with SNIP-721 https://github.com/SecretFoundation/SNIPs/blob/master/SNIP-721.md, Encryption mechanism overview, Special features
```

## Working Group for Interchain NFT + Metadata Call 4

**5th November 2020**

interNFT + Metadata Meeting 2020.11.05 

Slides for Call 4: https://github.com/ericaconnell/documentation/raw/master/resources/ICF_NFT_WG_-_Call_4_-_2020.11.05.pdf

### Agenda
1. First look at the draft Interchain NFT Interface Standard (NFT-RFC003)
2. Status of Github Issues & PRs
3. Use-case presentations from participants: </br>
  a. Get Protocol - Kasper Keunen</br>
  b. FreeFlix - SistlaAbhishek and Dayakar Reddy 

### Notes

#### First look at the draft Interchain NFT Interface Standard (NFT-RFC003)
1. https://github.com/interNFT/nft-rfc/tree/main/spec/nft-rfc-003_native_NFT_interface

#### Status of Github Issues & PRs
1. Documentation </br>
  a. https://github.com/interNFT/documentation/issues </br>
  b. https://github.com/interNFT/documentation/pulls
2. NFT-RFC </br>
  a. https://github.com/interNFT/nft-rfc/issues </br>
  b. https://github.com/interNFT/nft-rfc/pulls
3. Use Cases </br>
  a. https://github.com/interNFT/use-cases/issues </br>
  b. https://github.com/interNFT/use-cases/issues/3 </br>
      Difference between Re-fungible and Divisible </br>
  d. https://github.com/interNFT/use-cases/pulls </br>
  e. https://github.com/interNFT/use-cases/pull/5 </br>
      Update NFT-REC-002-use-cases.md </br>
  f. https://github.com/interNFT/use-cases/pull/4 </br>
      Add refungible to terminology

#### Use-case presentations from participants

#### Get Protocol
* Kasper Keunen
* https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1Exobz-__fQY4z4oduKCjKgdIkl1qYhjoTxBnU-GZaEs/edit?usp=sharing   

#### FreeFlix
* SistlaAbhishek and Dayakar Reddy 
* https://www.notion.so/Event-InterNFT-meetup-09ac70df015e4d39a7f8d4586b692fff 	

## Metadata Subgroup Call B

**12th Nov 2020**

Slides available at: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1mMPIVfjFBOh9qHL5aW4Xn20WnP3TFaGiOAdCOwvhyIk/edit#slide=id.p

### Summary 
<ol>
<li>	Review layer model</li>
<li>	Issues & PRs</li>
  <ol type="a">
    <li >	Use Cases
    <ol type="i">
      <li>	https://github.com/interNFT/use-cases/issues/3 <br/>
            Difference between Re-fungible and Divisible</li>
      <li>	https://github.com/interNFT/use-cases/pull/5<br/>
            Update NFT-REC-002-use-cases.md</li>
      <li>	https://github.com/interNFT/use-cases/pull/4<br/>
            Add refungible to terminology</li>
    </ol></li>
  </ol>
<li>	New Theater Ticket User Story
  <ol type="a">
  <li>	https://docs.google.com/document/d/1WJslQDXRWubmjqK7ot8v3v7rjwhSr3Anm3cKfRco0b8/edit#heading=h.busdkf414s5c</li>
  <li>	Review and discussion
    <ol type="i">
      <li> Open Design Question (for app users, not the spec): Authentication & verification
        <ol type="1">
          <li>	Where do they take place, by whom, using which system</li>
          <li>	How does this resonate with object capabilities</li>
        </ol></li>
      <li>	Invite to continue conversation on metadata channel on discord </li>
    </ol></li>
  </ol></li>
<li> Next subgroup call - Dec 10, 2020
  <ol type="a">
    <li>	Room for 4-6 other user stories </li>
    <li>	Propose something! 
      <ol type="i">
        <li>	Telegram: InterNFT Working Group</li>
        <li>	 Discord: https://discord.com/invite/W8trcGV</li>
        <li>	Submit a pull request: http://internft.org/</li>
      </ol>
    <li>	Encourage others to github for conversation development</li>
  </ol>
</ol>

---
## Working Group for Interchain NFT + Metadata Call 5

**19th November 2020**

### AGENDA
1. Tech Standard for NFT Metadata: progress update
2. Interface Standard for Implementing NFTs in the Cosmos SDK: progress update
3. ZKP and private/anonymous NFTs

### SUMMARY
**Part 1: Core Team Update**
<ol type="1">
  <li>Welcome & Summary of Progress
    <ol type="a">
      <li>Review of NFT flow from use cases to prototype use-case applications</li>
    </ol>
  </li>
  <li>Interchain Resource Identifiers 
    <ol type="a">
      <li>Metadata Standard will address
        <ol type="i">
          <li>NFT as container of embodied rights 
            <ol type="1">
              <li>Object capabilities - theater tix user story</li>
            </ol>
          </li>
          <li>NFT as container of a resource identifier
            <ol type="1">
              <li> NFT resource identifiers - token use cases </li>
            </ol>
          </li>
          <li>NFTs as a “native on-chan” resource
            <ol type="1">
              <li>**title over physical property</li>
            </ol>
          </li>
        </ol>
      </li>
      <li>Recent Innovations
        <ol type="i"> 
          <li>URL/URI/IRI</li>
          <li>DID</li>
          <li>CID</li>
          <li>IID</li>
        </ol>
      </li>
    </ol>
  </li>
  <li>Metadata Framework review </li> 
  <li>Status of Github & PR issues
    <ol type="a">
      <li><a href="https://github.com/interNFT/documentation/issues">https://github.com/interNFT/documentation/issues</a></li> 
      <li><a href="https://github.com/interNFT/documentation/pulls">https://github.com/interNFT/documentation/pulls</a></li> 
      <li><a href="https://github.com/interNFT/nft-rfc/issues">https://github.com/interNFT/nft-rfc/issues</a></li> 
      <li><a href="https://github.com/interNFT/nft-rfc/pulls">https://github.com/interNFT/nft-rfc/pulls</a></li> 
      <li><a href="https://github.com/interNFT/use-cases/issues">https://github.com/interNFT/use-cases/issues</a></li> 
      <li><a href="https://github.com/interNFT/use-cases/pulls">https://github.com/interNFT/use-cases/pulls</a></li>
    </ol>
  </li>
</ol>  

**Part 2: User Stories**
<ol type="1">
  <li>Brian Xin with Starry Media
    <ol type="a"> 
      <li>NFT Asset Management Platform for Ticketing Industry</li>  
      <li>E-ticket use case</li>
    </ol>
  </li>
</ol>       

**Part 3: Interchain Resource Identifiers**
<ol type="1">
  <li>New standard for identifying unique resources which are non-fungible tokens, which can be operationalized on any blockchain</li>
  <li>These tokens may contain references to external resources (such as real-world property or individuals), and they have their own namespace to do so.</li> 
</ol> 


### Next WG call:  Dec 3, 2020 
### Next Metadata call: Dec 10, 2020

---


## Metadata Subgroup Call C 

**3rd December 2020**

SUMMARY
<ol type "1"> 
  <li>Github Issues and Prs 
    <ol type = "a">
      <li>https://github.com/interNFT/use-cases/issues</li>
      <li>https://github.com/interNFT/use-cases/pulls</li>
      <li>https://github.com/interNFT/nft-rfc/issues</li>
      <li>https://github.com/interNFT/nft-rfc/pulls</li>
    </ol>
  </li>
  <li>Review of NFT Metadata  Framework
    <ol type="a">
      <li>This structure let’s us talk about what is metadata and what is data in order to better approach the spec we are building</li>
      <li>We’ve created 2 workstreams</li> 
        <ol type="i"> 
          <li>Rights </li>
          <li>Identifiers</li>
        </ol>
      </li>
    </ol> 
  </li> 
  <li>NFT Rights</li>
    <ol type = "a"> 
      <li>Rights Instruments</li>
        <ol type="i">
          <li>Bearer Instruments</li>
          <li>Registered instrument</li>
          <li>Negotiable instrument</li>
          <li>https://www.investopedia.com/terms/b/bearer-instrument.asp </li>
        </ol>
      <li>Technical Approaches </li>
        <ol type="i">
          <li>Bearer Tokens</li>
          <li>Constrained Tokens</li>
            <ol type="1">
              <li>Co-artifacts required for operationalization
              <li>Directed biometrically
              <li>Directed to “legally demonstrable” identity</li>
              <li>Intersubjective Verification process could help here</li>
            </ol>
          </li>
        </ol>
      <li>REQUIREMENT: must be able to specify rights & responsibilities
        <ol type="i">
          <li>Of the token as a token (property rights)</li>
            <ol type="1">
              <li>Ownership</li>
              <li>Agency</li>
              <li>Uniqueness</li>
              <li>Divisibility</li>
            </ol>
         <li>Afforded an authorized presenter of the token (affordances)</li>
          <ol type="1">
              <li>Right to a specific seat in a particular venue for a particular show</li>
              <li>Rights of access to information or location</li>
              <li>Right to use a particular service (paywall)</li>
          </ol>
        </li>
      </ol>
      <li>REQUIREMENT: Must be discoverable and understandable </li>
        <ol type="i">
          <li>Must be verifiable as recognized by appropriate parties</li> 
          <li>MAY be publicly committed, but privately described</li>
          <li>Warrantable completeness</li>
        </ol>
      <li>REQUIREMENT: Must be able to adjust and amend rights and responsibilities</li> 
        <ol type="i">
          <li>Changes to rights</li>
          <li>Constraints on changes to rights </li>
          <li>Attached or detached </li>
        </ol>
      </li>
      <li>REQUIREMENT: must be able to operationalize rights</li>
        <ol type="i"> 	
          <li>Computational evaluation</li>
          <li>Through external actors/oracles</li>
        </ol>
      </li>
      <li>REQUIREMENTS: Security</li>
        <ol type="i">
          <li>Cryptographically provable ownership</li>
          <li>Cryptographically delegatable rights </li>
          <li>Non-repudiable transfers </li>
          <li>Atomic Transfers</li> 
          <li>Auditability</li>
          <li>Key Management </li>
        </ol>
      <li>REQUIREMENTS: Privacy</li>
        <ol type="i">
          <li>Off-chain, verifiable details</li>
          <li>Minimally pseudonymous property rights</li>
            <ol type="1">
              <li>We should be able to work with the level to which bitcoin provides pseudonymity</li>
              <li>Add that we need to enable support for anonymous execution, for some definition of anonymous</li>
            </ol>   
          <li>Self-contained namespace</li>
          <li>Self-contained authentication</li>
        </ol>
      <li>Representations - how do we record & communication rights? 
                <ol type="i">
                  <li>Code
                  <li>Automatable 
                  <li>Formal
                  <li>Human readable
                </ol>
              </li>
            </ol>
          </li>
  <li>Next Metadata Call Dec 17th, 2020 </li>
  <li>Next Working Group Call Dec 10th, 2020</li>
</ol>   

----------------------------


## Working Group for Interchain NFT + Metadata Call #6

**10th December 2020**

SUMMARY:
<ol type = "1"> 
  <li>Review of use case RFC 002 </li>
    <ol type = "a">
      <li>https://github.com/interNFT/use-cases/blob/main/NFT-RFC-002-use-cases.md </li>
    </ol>
  <li>Review - Interface (RFC-003, RFC-004) </li>
    <ol type = "a"> 
      <li> https://github.com/persistenceOne/assetMantle
      <li>https://github.com/interNFT/nft-rfc/tree/main/spec/nft-rfc-003_native_NFT_interface 
      <li>https://github.com/interNFT/nft-rfc/tree/main/spec/nft-rfc-004_interNFT_standard
    </ol>
  <li>Review - Rights
    <ol type = "a">
      <li>https://github.com/interNFT/nft-rfc/pull/4 
      <li>Open conversation about defining and including bearer instruments
        <ol type = "i">
          <li>Token rights and resource rights </li>
        </ol>
      </li>
    </ol>
  <li>Next RFCs are not written yet:
    <ol type = "a">
      <li>RFC006/Cap 19 (chain agnostic work) write up after next week’s call
      <li>RFC007 Layer Model needs to be written up to explain in formal terms what we mean by metadata, how the layers in the system work together </li>
    </ol>  
  <li>We want to wrap up this phase of work by the end of the year, and start the new year with draft standards
  <li>Github issues and PRs review 
    <ol type= "a">
      <li>Move more of our conversation to github so we can distribute the conversation better for those who cannot make these calls. Please check out the urls and comment there.
      <li>We have a lot of artifacts now, so the challenge is to get the engagement in conversation and to get people to try and give feedback so we can iterate and move forward,</li>
    </ol>
  <li>Next Metadata Subgroup Call - 2020.12.17 
  <li>Next Working Group Call- 2020.01.14 
  <li>Call recording for review: https://youtu.be/dc_rCq3xawI
  






